Add Spaces to the spec (#3610)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: content/client-server-api/modules/spaces.md

permission from the room moderators/admins.

Child rooms can be removed from a space by omitting the `via` key of `content` on the
relevant state event, such as through redaction or otherwise clearing the `content`.
This is a temporary measure until it is possible to delete state events in Matrix.

{{% event event="m.space.child" %}}

###### Ordering

When the client is displaying the children of a space, the children should be ordered
using the algorithm below. In some cases, like a traditional left side room list, the
client may override the ordering to provide better user experience. A theoretical
space summary view would however show the children ordered.

Taking the set of space children, first order the children with a valid `order` key
lexicographically by Unicode code-points such that `\x20` (space) is sorted before
`\x7E` (`~`). Then, take the remaining children and order them by the `origin_server_ts`
of their `m.space.child` event in ascending numeric order, placing them after the
children with a valid `order` key in the resulting set.

In cases where the `order` or timestamps are the same, the children are ordered

> lexicographically by their room IDs (state keys) in ascending order.

Reviewer: I think in the case of Synapse it sorts by `order`, then `origin_server_ts`, then room ID (i.e. the `origin_server_ts` is used even when `order` is provided). This might be a bug or might be from vagueness in the original MSCs.

Author: probably vagueness of the MSCs, I think. The case isn't fully covered by either.

Will adopt the Synapse approach - do you have a link to the rough area where it could be found?

Reviewer: https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/b38bdae3a2e5b7cfe862580368b996b8d7dfa50f/synapse/handlers/room_summary.py#L1165-L1195

The code builds a tuple for comparison that is:

1. False if `order` exists, `True` otherwise (this places all items with `order` before those without `order`)
2. The value of the `order` field.
3. The value of the `origin_server_ts` field.
4. The room ID.

This gets dumped into the Python sorting functions:

https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/b38bdae3a2e5b7cfe862580368b996b8d7dfa50f/synapse/handlers/room_summary.py#L1046-L1048

manner: when it encounters another space as a child it recurses into that space before
returning non-space children.

{{% boxes/warning %}}
Though prohibited, it is still possible for loops to occur. Servers should gracefully
break loops.

Additionally, a given child room might appear multiple times in the response as a
grandchild (for example).
{{% /boxes/warning %}}

{{% http-api spec="client-server" api="space_hierarchy" %}}

##### Server behaviour

In the case where the server does not have access to the state of a child room, it can
request the information over federation with the
[`GET /hierarchy`](/server-server-api/#get_matrixfederationv1hierarchyroomid) API. The
response to this endpoint should be cached for a period of time. The response might
additionally contain information about rooms the requesting user is already a member
of, or that the server is aware of - the local data should be used instead of the remote
server's data.

Note that the response to this endpoint is contextual based on the user. Servers are
encouraged to cache the data for a period of time, though permission checks may need to

> be performed to ensure the response is accurate for that user.

Reviewer: I think "this endpoint" is referring to the C-S endpoint, but it isn't clear. The C-S endpoint is contextual based on the user, the S-s endpoint is contextual based on the server.

Author: This ends up in the client-server spec, so should be contextually clear?

Reviewer: The first sentence of this section talks about federation, maybe that's what is confusing me?

Author: ah, yea, that would probably do it. Will figure out wording.

organise rooms while being represented as rooms themselves.

A space is defined by the [`m.space` room type](#types), making it known as a
"space-room". The space's name, topic, avatar, aliases, etc are all defined through
the existing relevant state events within the space-room.

Sending normal [`m.room.message`](#mroommessage) events within the space-room is
discouraged - clients are not generally expected to have a way to render the timeline
of the room. As such, space-rooms should be created with [`m.room.power_levels`](#mroompower_levels)
which prohibit normal events by setting `events_default` to a suitably high number.
In the default power level structure, this would be `100`. Clients might wish to
go a step further and explicitly ignore notification counts on space-rooms.

Membership of a space is defined and controlled by the existing mechanisms which
govern a room: [`m.room.member`](#mroommember), [`m.room.history_visibility`](#mroomhistory_visibility),
and [`m.room.join_rules`](#mroomjoin_rules). Public spaces are encouraged to have
a similar setup to public rooms: `world_readable` history visibility, published

> canonical alias, and suitibly public `join_rule`. Invites, including third-party

Author: mostly to avoid confusion with `public` `join_rule` (backticks being the difference). It's also possible that someone might want to have their space knock-only but otherwise listed publicly in a directory - by our other classifications, this isn't "public" but would be "suitably public".

invites, still work just as they do in normal rooms as well.

All other aspects of regular rooms are additionally carried over, such as the
ability to set arbitrary state events, hold room account data, etc. Spaces are
just rooms with extra functionality on top.

#### Managing rooms/spaces included in a space

Spaces form a hierarchy of rooms which clients can use to structure their room
list into a tree-like view. The parent/child relationship can be defined in two
ways: with [`m.space.child`](#mspacechild) state events in the space-room, or with
[`m.space.parent`](#mspaceparent) state events in the child room.

In most cases, both the child and parent relationship should be defined to aid
discovery of the space and its rooms. When only a `m.space.child` is used, the space
is effectively a curated list of rooms which the rooms themselves might not be aware
of. When only a `m.space.parent` is used, the rooms are "secretly" added to spaces
with the effect of not being advertised directly by the space.

{{% boxes/warning %}}
Considering spaces are rooms themselves, it is possible to nest spaces within spaces,

> infinitely. Though loops are explicitly disallowed, they are still possible. Loops
> must be broken rather than infinitely looping.

Author: may -> might:
```suggestion
and it is possible to create a loop. Though the creation of loops is explicitly disallowed,
implementations might still encounter them and must be careful not to loop infinitely when
this happens.
```

Clients and servers should additionally be aware of excessively long trees which may
cause performance issues.
{{% /boxes/warning %}}

##### `m.space.child` relationship

When using this approach, the state events get sent into the space-room which is the

> parent to the room. The `state_key` for the event is the child room's ID.

Author: We don't really talk about setting things "onto" a room in the spec, so am hesitant to introduce the concept here.

For example, to achieve the following:

```
#space:example.org
    #general:example.org (!abcdefg:example.org)
    !private:example.org
```

the state of `#space:example.org` would consist of:

*Unimportant fields trimmed for brevity.*

```json
{
    "type": "m.space.child",
    "state_key": "!abcdefg:example.org",
    "content": {
        "via": ["example.org"]
    }
}
```
```json
{
    "type": "m.space.child",
    "state_key": "!private:example.org",
    "content": {
        "via": ["example.org"]
    }
}
```

> No state events in the child rooms themselves would be required. This allows for users

Author: may->can:
```suggestion
No state events in the child rooms themselves would be required (though they
can also be present). This allows for users
```

{{% event event="m.space.child" %}}

###### Ordering

When the client is displaying the children of a space, the children should be ordered
using the algorithm below. In some cases, like a traditional left side room list, the
client may override the ordering to provide better user experience. A theoretical
space summary view would however show the children ordered.

Taking the set of space children, first order the children with a valid `order` key
lexicographically by Unicode code-points such that `\x20` (space) is sorted before
`\x7E` (`~`). Then, take the remaining children and order them by the `origin_server_ts`
of their `m.space.child` event in ascending numeric order, placing them after the
children with a valid `order` key in the resulting set.

In cases where the `order` values are the same, the children are ordered by their
timestamps.  If the timestamps are the same, the children are ordered lexicographically
by their room IDs (state keys) in ascending order.

Noting the careful use of ASCII spaces here, the following demonstrates a set of space
children being ordered appropriately:

*Unimportant fields trimmed for brevity.*

```json
[

>     {

Author: ah, yes. Originally this whole ordering section had two code blocks (unordered followed by ordered) - iterations ended up dissolving that though.

I'm not really sure there's much added value by going into this much detail, but equally it's already written so might as well maintain it.
